The days carried on, each day the Big Mother Hen seemed to be holding her breathe. It was not going to be long before the farmer came to take the king to paradise. The king didn’t speak about the future, about paradise. Was she there with him, the Big Mother Hen often wondered? Did he plan to take her along and was she ever going to have her freedom back. With each passing day, the weight of her anxiety grew and her nightmares became more vivid. More and more times she found herself reciting the names of her little ones to herself until it became some kind of a song.

The night before the promised day the king called on to her. “My queen my beloved,” said he. “Tomorrow the farmer comes, and the thought of leaving you in this god-forsaken-place tears at my heart. You will succeed after me and when your time is right, the farmer will bring you to  join me in paradise. My world wouldn’t be paradise without you in it.”

The bells were going off in the distance. The king kept tapping his leg out of anxiety, all the fowl waited in anticipation to give him a send off to paradise.  Beads of sweat rolled down the Big Mother Hen’s face. This was the day. 

The farmer came in as usual, with his sharp hat on his head and his cloak that went all the way to his filthy boots. He wore a toothless grin on his face like the one he had on the night he captured the Big Mother Hen. The Big Mother Hen swallowed hard as he approached. In the corner of the Big Mother Hen’s eyes she could see the other hens paving way for the farmer as he made his way to where the Big Mother Hen stood next to her king. The farmer scooped down and grabbed the king by the wing examined him from top to bottom, looked down at the Big Mother Hen then back at the king. He then reached out his other big hand and grabbed the Big Mother Hen as well. He examined her too.

”This is it,” thought the Big Mother Hen. The farmer seemed to be comparing them against each other or weighing them, one could not really tell. He looked at them up close, raising one by one to his eyes level and then all of a sudden, he dropped the king, opened the big squeaky door and made his exit with the Big Mother Hen in his hand. The Big Mother Hen could hear the sudden chaos that rose as the farmer exited the barn. 

“You betrayed me,” she heard the king shout as he threw himself at the shutting door. The disappointed look in his face was the last thing she saw as the door shut.
