The Big Mother Hen looked up at him and in his hands he held the biggest egg she had ever seen. It was a shinny egg, so smooth as the farmer inspected it in his hand. She could almost hear the life forming inside it. But at the moment a new thought was in her mind. The farmer had completely let go of her. So mesmerized by the egg, he had completely forgotten about the Big Mother Hen. This was a window of opportunity. She could get right up run out over the fence and be gone before the farmer could catch up to her. 

So she did the next thing her instincts told her to do. She gathered her wits and started to run blindly towards the fence. Behind her, she heard the farmer coming right behind her. Images were forming in her mind, what about the others. Skinny, the king, she had to tell someone, she had to tell someone that paradise was actually a slaughter house. She began to slow down and it was not long before the farmer grabbed her by the wings.

“With such lovely eggs you’re going to earn back your life,” said the farmer as he led the Big Mother Hen back to the barn.

Her first sight as the farmer opened the door to the barn was the king. 

“Paradise is not for cheats, you betrayer,” he was shouting as the farmer dropped the Big Mother Hen and picked up the king.

“It’s a trap, don’t go, it’s a trap ,”she shouted above the chaos that had suddenly rose with her entry but it was too late, for the king was joyfully being led to paradise. The Big Mother Hen slapped herself against the slamming door and began to beat at it. She could feel every one’s eyes on her. No one seemed to understand the truth in what she was saying. Everyone thought she was fighting to go back to paradise.

“It’s a trap” she said to the blank faces that starred at her “it’s a trap,” she kept on saying, scanning the room to see if any one believed her. She saw nothing, nothing; no one seemed to believe her except Skinny who seemed to be nodding at her assuredly. She started to make her way towards Skinny, noticing her featherless neck  the weary look in her eyes ,that distant look in her eyes – she must have known, she must know, and what about the pigeon, the pigeon that could fly in and out of the barn at  will. Someone had to have known.

“Why?” she said as she stood in front of Skinny “why didn’t you warn us.”

“Let me show you something,” said Skinny as she gently led her right in front of the wall with all the history and painting of great leaders. “That right there is me, the great queen that once ruled.”

“That’s you?  Why didn’t you tell anyone? Why didn’t you tell me it was hell?”

“The hope of freedom is what keeps us alive here. What are we left with when we take that away. They need it. You needed it. It keeps us going.”

“You said you found your freedom but this is no freedom. Freedom is out there, just a small path away from hell and am going to find it,” said the Big Mother Hen as she walked towards the centre of the room. 

‘Everyone! Listen up every one, there is no paradise”, she shouted on top of her voice. “There is no paradise.”

“They will not believe you,” said Skinny who stood at her side. “They will not listen.”

‘Then make them listen, they have got to know, they have a right to know.” pleaded the Big Mother Hen.

And so Skinny walked right up to the centre of the barn scratching her nails on the wall as she slowly made her way. The barn quieted down at the screeching sound and every one turned their attention to Skinny.

“For so long the farmer has taken advantage of our arrogance and ignorance,” she said. “And we were too weak minded to see it.”

“Who are you to make this sort of accusations?” asked Paddy a fowl looking hen. “The farmer has been nothing but kind to us. He gives us food and water and he lets one of us leave to go to paradise.”

“Paradise!” said the Big Mother Hen, “there is no paradise, just a tree stump and an axe that the farmer uses to chop our heads off.”

All birds looked at the Big Mother Hen in unanticipated horror. “I have been outside these walls and back and I can honestly tell you that what I saw there was the opposite of paradise. For as long as we let the farmer control our destiny, the only thing that awaits us is death.” The whole barn was now quiet, all the birds were listening to the words of the Big Mother Hen with a look of unspoken fear in their eyes.

What do we do we do then?”asked Paddy.

“We seize our freedom,” replied someone in the crowd.

“We attack the farmer,” replied another.

“He is too strong for us,” said Skinny. “The farmer only eats those of us who are fat. If we stop eating the farmer will not want us for his dinner any more.”

“And how do we know this will work?” asked again Paddy.

“Because its how I have survived all these days. In my day I became the first hen to rule this barn and like all those before me I waited for my day of freedom. As promised, the farmer came for me and led me out straight to the tree stump. I  only survived because I laid an egg. But in the days that followed I could not eat for worry of my life, I grew small and reduced in mass and that’s how I survived the axe of the farmer.’’
