Everyone seemed to agree with the plan to eat as little as possible and in the days that followed no food was touched. The farmer came in from time to time and it puzzled him that the food was left uneaten.

The farmer came to take an egg from the Big Mother Hen every day and the mother hen mourned of each egg because it represented a child she’d never get to meet. The plan seemed to be working well though because the farmer had a worried look on his face. He came to the barn when the day bells went off and looked around the barn. All the hens seemed to have lost weight. “They must be sick,” he murmured and then looked around for the sickliest of the birds. That day he picked out five birds that he took to the axe.

His exit was followed by cries and mourns and blame to Skinny for her solution to the whole episode. The birds gathered around Skinny to ask about how the plan went wrong.

“It’s all your fault,” they said. “We were better off not knowing, now we live in worry thinking about what awaits us.”

There has to be a solution,” said the Big Mother Hen, “freedom is not to be given by the farmer. We have to take it, forcefully. We will unite our strengths. We will fight off the farmer and to do that we have to be prepared.” By this time the Big Mother Hen had gained the confidence of the barn. Everyone was stumping their feet in agreement.

It was going to be a while before the farmer could take any of them again so they sharpened their crawls and beaks and ate as much as possible. The farmer came in every day to pick the eggs that the Big Mother Hen laid and for every egg the farmer took, the Big Mother Hen mourned the chick she would have been and the hen she could have become. 

The days rolled by and the long awaited day came. Every bird stood ready to strike. Beaks and claws were fully sharpened. The pigeon was flying outside ready to give the signal. When the farmer approached the barn, the turkeys stood at the door ready to keep it open the moment the farmer came in.

The farmer came in as usual swinging a bucket in one hand and a can of water in the other. The moment he opened the door the turkeys attacked him. He dropped the food and water and kicked at the turkeys that were attacking him. The pigeon flew in and attacked his face. The farmer started trying to wave off the pigeon while kicking at the birds that were now fully rounded up around him. He tried to run outside the door but tipped over the bucket and fell flat on his face.

“Get off me you stupid birds,” he shouted as the bird raced outside the door stepping on the farmer as they made their exit. There was noise every everywhere, shouts of freedom as the birds ran to their freedom.
