She ran as fast as she could, tears were rolling down her face blinding her but she could hardly feel them. Grass and trees slashed at her but she kept right on running. She ran like the wind and with the wind, jumping over mud ponds and rivers. She ran blindly and fiercely still hearing the last words Skinny had said to her. Run! She hardly noticed the scorching sun or the prickling in her feet. She ran like never before and kept right on running. The sun was sinking in the west when she eventually gave in to the weariness and collapsed into a tired dreamless sleep.

The Big Mother Hen was awoken by the ticklish feeling on her face. She opened her eyes to see a tiny chick with barely a feather nibbling at her face.

“Where did you come from?” She said getting up. The sun was high up in the sky and the air was fresh with the morning dew. The Big Mother Hen looked around her to get a sense of where she was.  She was just at the slope of the hill. Down below she could see the valley, the small farm and the rest of them. Her chicks! She was home. She knew these fields, she had once fed around these fields. And those had to be her babies, her chicks.

“Yellow!” She said to the little one at her side.

“Coo!” Replied she.

“You survived! You survived,” she cried out her voice rising. She started to race down the hill towards the rest of them. “My chicks, they survived,’’ she shouted as she ran towards them. They were all there, all of them, feeding by the hillside unattended. They didn’t seem to be a day older than they were the night she left. But it didn’t matter to her then. All the things she  had had to go through to get back home didn’t matter to her then. Her heart was heaving with joy. Her chicks had lived to see her get home.

She was almost reaching them when another hen jumped right in front her.

“Hey slow down,” she said, “Where are you headed?’’

“My chicks!” she said joyfully. “After all this time, they survived.”

“Those chicks?” said the new comer.

“Yes my chicks ,they survived ,look at them.”

“Those are my chicks,” said the brown hen who was now putting on a somewhat serious face.

“No, those are my chicks, I could never forget those faces.”

“Those are my chicks and you are going to have to go through me to get to them,” said the brown hen now stretching her neck and drawing out her nails. She attacked the Big Mother Hen and before they knew it they were fighting scratching at each other’s face. The Big Mother Hen fought with all her might until she managed to pin the other hen to the ground. But just as she brought her final blow she realized something. She knew this hen, she knew those eyes.

“Brownie?” She said questioningly as she stepped back.

“What?” replied the other hen with a puzzled look.

“I know you.”

“Ma?” Said the other hen now getting up.

“Brownie” the Big Mother Hen said in a now excited voice.

“It’s Yellow actually, but that does not matter now. Your back!” said Yellow now excited as well.

“But you’re not yellow, you’re brown. And you’re big. Where is Brownie, where are all the others?” she said looking around at the fields.

“They never made it mother. Willie, Crazy and Kiki did not survive the storm that night. The rest of us waited around for you, praying each day that you would safely return home. We lived  with the hope that you would one day come back, and then there was a flu that broke out. Brownie, Sleek and I survived for most part of it but then the kite came and took off with them. I am the only one that survived.”

“ But Featherlight, she was a strong-, and Kiki, Kiki-?” she was stammering, and she could feel the tears begin to form in her eyes as she tried to hold them back.

“Mother!” Pleaded Yellow. “I lived to see you back. All else does not matter. Your  home now.”

“Your right,” she said wiping the tears off  her face, “I am home. And I have you. I am glad you’re here to see me home. And these are…?”

“Your grandchildren, named them after all the others. That’s Yellow over there, she going to be a real trooper, and that’s Whitie, Sleek, Kiki, and oh, that’s Crazy, she is crazy. I can not get her to walk in a straight line. She’s always bumping into things. And that over there is Flicker. She thinks she’s going to learn how to fly.” The Big Mother Hen looked at them and all the emptiness of loss she’d started to feel and the weight of her loss seemed to be lifting as she looked at the little ones. She was home.

“Come let me show you the old house. They put a new door,” said Yellow as she gently guided her to the old chicken pen with her young ones racing on ahead of them. Together they walked off towards home telling each other of all the adventures they had encountered since they had last seen each other.

THE END
