The days dragged by, the Big Mother Hen became skinnier and skinnier, and all the while the king got bigger and bigger. The farmer came on his special day and took him by the wings and led him out the magical doors just like Skinny had predicted. The others watched on with both admiration and jealousy. With the old king gone the birds fought one another for the privileged title. They plucked feathers off their behind and threw them in the ring to enter the big race and two by two they fought each other to near death until the ultimate undefeated champion was found.

The new king was a white cock. He stepped with pride and grace to be sworn to leadership. The Big Mother Hen watched the proceeding with complete and utter disinterest.  She wallowed away in her corner in quite agony of the life she was being forced to lead. She ate the scraps that were left after other birds were done fighting over the first peck. She hardly noticed the days go by nor did she notice the look in the king’s gaze or the hesitation in his step every morning he made his majestic way to the troughs.

“He likes you!” said Skinny one day in a singing voice as the king made his way to the  troughs giving his now casual look.

“Who does?” asked the disinterested Big Mother Hen.

“The king” replied Skinny “if I were you, not that I’d be you, I’d look at that as my ticket out of here. He is the king. If u were his queen, you’d be feeding as well as him. And he looks honorable, so my dear, no harm no fowl.

The Big Mother Hen thought it over. The king seemed to be the only one who could win the farmers’ favor. Maybe when the time was right he would convince the farmer to take her too.

With all this in mind the Big Mother Hen suddenly started to see the light at the end of the tunnel. She wiped the sad grin off her face and began to take note of the king. she batted her eyes back at him and gave him the most charming of smiles. Every morning as he passed she’d stand gracefully spreading out her feather so he could see the bright colors hidden and giving the most musical crooooak, croak  in the barn. This the king took note of, and sooner than later on one merry morning he stopped right in front of her on his way to the troughs.
